Karmada Project Security Self-Assessment (#1166)
cncf/tag-security: assessments/projects/karmada/self-assessment.md

# Self-assessment for Karmada

> This assessment was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process with the help of project maintainers.

Reviewer: This assessment was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team.

> This assessment was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process with the help of project maintainers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This assessment was created by community members as part of the [Security Pals](https://github.com/cncf/tag-security/issues/1102) process, and is currently pending changes from the maintainer team.
```

Authors: Pranava Kumar Vemula (@Rana-KV)

Contributors/Reviewers:  Eddie Knight (@eddie-knight), Ragashree (@ragashreeshekar), @torinvdb

Project Maintainers: Hongcai Ren (@RainbowMango)

The Self-assessment is the initial document for Karmada to begin thinking about the security of the project, determining gaps in its security, and preparing any security documentation for their users.

## Table of contents

* [Metadata](#metadata)
  * [Security links](#security-links)
* [Overview](#overview)
  * [Actors](#actors)
  * [Actions](#actions)
  * [Background](#background)
  * [Goals](#goals)
  * [Non-goals](#non-goals)
* [Self-assessment use](#self-assessment-use)
* [Security functions and features](#security-functions-and-features)
* [Project compliance](#project-compliance)
* [Secure development practices](#secure-development-practices)
* [Security issue resolution](#security-issue-resolution)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
  * [Threat Modeling with STRIDE](#threat-modeling-with-stride)

## Metadata

A table at the top for quick reference information, later used for indexing.

|   |  |

> | -- | -- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| -- | -- |
| Assessment Stage | Incomplete | 
```

# Self-assessment for Karmada

## Table of contents

* [Metadata](#metadata)
  * [Security links](#security-links)
* [Overview](#overview)
  * [Actors](#actors)
  * [Actions](#actions)
  * [Background](#background)
  * [Goals](#goals)
  * [Non-goals](#non-goals)
* [Self-assessment use](#self-assessment-use)
* [Security functions and features](#security-functions-and-features)
* [Project compliance](#project-compliance)
* [Secure development practices](#secure-development-practices)
* [Security issue resolution](#security-issue-resolution)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
  * [Threat Modeling with STRIDE](#threat-modeling-with-stride)

## Metadata

A table at the top for quick reference information, later used for indexing.

|   |  |
| -- | -- |
| **Software** | [A link to Karmada’s repository.](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada)  |
| **Security Provider** | No. The primary function of the project is to run Kubernetes clusters across clouds. Security is not the primary objective. |
| **Languages** |<ul><li>Go</li><li>Shell</li><li>Smarty</li><li>Mustache</li><li>Makefile</li><li>Dockerfile</li></ul> |

> | **SBOM** | SBOM generated using **FOSSA-cli** tool on the latest code base. [Link to SBOM](https://github.com/Rana-KV/tag-security/blob/main/assessments/projects/karmada/docs/Karmada_SBOM_cyclonedx.bom.json) |

Reviewer: This seems to be your personal repo. Please provide the link to the SBOM generated/released by the team. If one isn't available, kindly mark as not available

Author: Thanks for your review @ragashreeshekar.

Currently the team doesn't have any public SBOM available. I will record it as "Not Available".

Reviewer 2: Is there any example of public SBOM?
The team is now running Fossa against each commit and the report is publicly available. Such as the latest report can be found at [here](https://app.fossa.com/projects/custom%2B28176%2Fgithub.com%2Fkarmada-io%2Fkarmada/refs/branch/master/65376b28d5037c27ff7ec0e56542c2a345d1a120/preview)

Author: @RainbowMango 

Sorry, my bad. I think the link you shared it not restricted. I will update the document again.

### Security links

Provide the list of links to existing security documentation for the project. You may
use the table below as an example:
| Doc | url |
| -- | -- |
| Security file | [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/security-team/SECURITY.md) |

> | Default and optional configs | TBD - https://example.org/config |

Reviewer: Kindly update if there is a reference to default and optional configs

Author: Thanks for keeping this as review point, I have discussed with the @RainbowMango from karmada team and updated it.

Reviewer 2: PS:
The Karmada team added a [Security Considerations Doc](https://karmada.io/docs/next/administrator/security/security-considerations) which aims to provide a series of best practices and recommendations.

@Rana-KV This is the document that I talked to you. Please check if this is needed for this report. Thanks.

* Open and Neutral: Kubernetes native API compatible and integrates with mainstream cloud providers.

**Security**

* Karmada project elements should be protected and robust against tampering.
* Authenticating and authorizating access to karmada control plane components.
* Protect karmada control plane from being compromised.
* Protect karmada control plane's identity.

### Non-goals
Non-goals that a reasonable reader of the project’s literature could believe may
be in scope (e.g., Flibble does not intend to stop a party with a key from storing
an arbitrarily large amount of data, possibly incurring financial cost or overwhelming
 the servers)

**General**

* Maintaining and montioring the image registry.
* Managing and montioring Host Server and Host OS services.

**Security**
* Access control of image registry.
* Scanning images in image registry for vulnerabilites.
* Storage and access control of access tokens to karmada control plane.
* Stop anyone with valid access token from accessing karmada control plane.
* Address security issues of extensions or tools used with Karmada.

## Self-assessment use

> This self-assessment is created by the Karmada team to perform an internal analysis of the

Reviewer: Can you please specify at the top which member of the maintainer team acted as an author on this? (Or otherwise rephrase)

Author: Yes, I have changed the content and also mentioned the project maintainers who help in creating the documentation.

  * **Istio** <br>
Istio is a service mesh that provides traffic management, security, and observability features for microservices. It focuses on connecting and managing networks between services. Where as Karmada is a Kubernetes multi-cluster orchestrator. It focuses on deploying and managing workloads across multiple Kubernetes clusters. Even if Karmada can manage several clusters, it does not provide any networking mechanism to make sure that the clusters are linked. In other words, Karmada is an excellent tool to orchestrate deployments across clusters, but you need something else to make sure those clusters can communicate with each other like Istio.
    * **Key Differences** <br>
    Istio operates at the network layer, managing traffic between services using sidecar proxies. <br>
    Karmada works at the workload layer, propagating apps and policies to clusters.

> ### Threat Modeling with STRIDE

Reviewer: Following discussions among the review team, we are asking that all STRIDE content be moved to a secondary document within this directory. Please extract this content and add a link to the new file in the appendix.

Author: Updated accordingly, create a new document to record all the threat modeling content and linked the new document in the security self assessment.
